TRIBE_Model/README.md, before:

# TRIBE Model (MATLAB)

## Quick Start

```matlab
addpath('TRIBE_Model');
results = main();
```

## App Front End (TribeFrontEnd)

Launch the App Designer UI from the repo root:

```matlab
addpath('TRIBE_Model');
rehash toolboxcache;
app = TribeFrontEnd;
```

If you are not in the repo root, use an absolute path to the `TRIBE_Model`
folder:

```matlab
addpath('/Users/icatel/Desktop/Coding/TRIBE_Modelling_MatLab/TRIBE_Model');
rehash toolboxcache;
app = TribeFrontEnd;
```

If MATLAB cannot find the UI classes, verify the package path:

```matlab
which tribe.ui.ConfigEditor
```

You should see a path under `TRIBE_Model/+tribe/+ui/ConfigEditor.m`.

## Configuration

```matlab
cfg = tribe.Config.default();
cfg.rack_profile.chipset = "NVIDIA H200";
cfg.buyer_profile.process_id = "Pasteurisation - Medium";
results = tribe.Model(cfg).run();
```

Helper presets:

```matlab
cfg = tribe.Config.forCoolingMethod("Single-Phase Immersion");
results = tribe.Model(cfg).run();
```

## Excel Validation

```matlab
addpath('TRIBE_Model/validation');
report = validate_against_excel();
```

To relax the coverage threshold (for example, when running without a cache),
override the minimum coverage:

```matlab
report = validate_against_excel('min_coverage', 0);
```

To use cached values on non-Windows machines, generate the cache on a machine
with Excel and then re-run validation:

```matlab
addpath('TRIBE_Model/validation');
cache_excel_values('use_excel', true);
report = validate_against_excel();
```

## Tests

```matlab
addpath('TRIBE_Model');
runtests('TRIBE_Model/tests');
```

Commit message:

Enhance two-stage optimization with fixed market values option and UI integration

TRIBE_Model/README.md, after:

# TRIBE Model (MATLAB)

## Quick Start

```matlab
addpath('TRIBE_Model');
results = main();
```

## App Front End (TribeFrontEnd)

Launch the App Designer UI from the repo root:

```matlab
addpath('TRIBE_Model');
rehash toolboxcache;
app = TribeFrontEnd;
```

If you are not in the repo root, use an absolute path to the `TRIBE_Model`
folder:

```matlab
addpath('/Users/icatel/Desktop/Coding/TRIBE_Modelling_MatLab/TRIBE_Model');
rehash toolboxcache;
app = TribeFrontEnd;
```

If MATLAB cannot find the UI classes, verify the package path:

```matlab
which tribe.ui.ConfigEditor
```

You should see a path under `TRIBE_Model/+tribe/+ui/ConfigEditor.m`.

## Configuration

```matlab
cfg = tribe.Config.default();
cfg.rack_profile.chipset = "NVIDIA H200";
cfg.buyer_profile.process_id = "Pasteurisation - Medium";
results = tribe.Model(cfg).run();
```

Helper presets:

```matlab
cfg = tribe.Config.forCoolingMethod("Single-Phase Immersion");
results = tribe.Model(cfg).run();
```

## Optimization

Run the two-stage optimizer from the command line:

```matlab
results = tribe.analysis.twoStageOptimizer();
disp(results.best_config);
```

By default, market-constrained parameters (electricity rate, heat prices,
compute rate, utilization) are fixed to standard UK market values and are
not optimized. To keep the current configuration values instead, disable
the fixed market values option:

```matlab
opts = struct('fixed_market_values', false);
results = tribe.analysis.twoStageOptimizer([], opts);
```

In the UI, the Optimization tab includes a "Use fixed market values"
checkbox (enabled by default) to control this behavior.

## Excel Validation

```matlab
addpath('TRIBE_Model/validation');
report = validate_against_excel();
```

To relax the coverage threshold (for example, when running without a cache),
override the minimum coverage:

```matlab
report = validate_against_excel('min_coverage', 0);
```

To use cached values on non-Windows machines, generate the cache on a machine
with Excel and then re-run validation:

```matlab
addpath('TRIBE_Model/validation');
cache_excel_values('use_excel', true);
report = validate_against_excel();
```

## Tests

```matlab
addpath('TRIBE_Model');
runtests('TRIBE_Model/tests');
```
